[Draft] Rework the "Overview of the Compiler" chapter (#1955)
rust-lang/rustc-dev-guide: src/overview/overview.md

> Thank you to everyone who contributed to this overview!

> **NOTES ON THE OVERALL CHAPTER STRUCTURE**
>
> We _embrace_ the query architecture and talk about areas _backwards_ compared
> to traditional compiler texts. Since information dependence of the various
> `rustc` areas form a Direct Acyclic Graph (DAG) at the query view (not acyclic
> at the areas view), it makes sense to start at the root -- the final
> executable -- and traverse the graph in a breadth-first traversal, all the way
> until we get to name resolution. At that point, we can zoom out and talk about
> the non-querified areas (in either reverse order like the querified areas, or
> forwards order like traditional passes-based compilers, depending on which

> > order feels more natural).

Reviewer: I'm not super convinced by this. I find it easier to follow the flow of information in the parse->codegen direction. That way I can know what information is available at every stage. Similarly, whether an area is querified or not feels like an implementation detail; it doesn't affect the general understanding of which information is computed where.

I do agree that it's important for contributors to understand the querified nature of rustc. I think the walkthrough chapter would be a good place to walk through the "real" execution order, starting from the cli invocation all the way to parsing the files.

Author: Yeah, I could shuffle the organization around the "usual" way without it being *too* disruptive. I'll see what people think w.r.t. ordering.

Author: I flipped the summary ordering to go from parse->codegen. Thanks for the feedback.

Representations_ (IRs), which provide common interfaces to allow areas to
communicate with each other. These include but are not limited to:

- Tokens
- Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)
- High-Level Intermediate Representation (HIR)
- Mid-Level Intermediate Representation (MIR)

These various IRs gradually transform surface Rust syntax by simplications of
language constructs and enriches the information available to lower-level areas
by many analyses.

### Querified Areas

> 🚧 **XXX DO NOT KEEP: EXAMPLE AREA SUMMARY** 🚧

> - A succinct summary of the responsibility of the area.
> - Introduce the inputs. Briefly motivate why the inputs are why they are.
> - Motivate the area's existence -- what does it do to / with the inputs? Why?
> - Introduce the outputs. Briefly motivate why the outputs are what they are.
> - Want to know more? Link to details chapter here. Link to "Additional
>   References" section below.

> :warning: **Where does trait system come in?** / **Where do we describe the
> trait system here?** AFAIK, it's both dependent and and provides information
> to multiple areas. Link: <https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/pull/121848>

> #### Static-Single Assignment (SSA) Code Generation

Reviewer: You're missing a section about codegen. Idk if it's querified or not

Author: ~~We don't talk about codegen~~ Yeah I'm not completely sure about codegen atm.

Author: Stubbed out a section on the 3 codegen backends

information embedded. THIR is the last IR where lexical structure is meaningful
for analysis in the chain of lowering from HIR to THIR to MIR and beyond, where
lower-level IRs transition from being lexically-aware to being dataflow-aware.
For example, unsafeck is performed on THIR and not MIR because we care about the
lexical structure -- whether something exists inside an `unsafe` block
lexically. To further simplify tree-based reasoning, THIR has several
simplifications over HIR:

- Explicit auto-deref/auto-ref and coercions.
- Method calls are desugared into regular function calls.
- Overloaded operators like `+` are lowered into function calls or builtin
  operations.
- Match ergonomics are desugared.

With the aforementioned properties, the construction of THIR synthesizes enough
information for MIR building, and makes lowering to MIR easier and less
error-prone than if HIR was attempted to be directly lowered to MIR.

See [The Typed High-level Intermediate
Representation](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/thir.html) for more
details.

#### HIR Body Type-checking

> 🚧 **TODO** 🚧 (Remove the cat meme when complete with draft)

> ![](https://hackmd.io/_uploads/ry2CM6gAa.jpg)

Reviewer: :rofl: plz don't remove the cat meme

Author: something something retaining the cat meme might require an FCP in the final version /jk

  descriptive errors and suggestions to be produced.
- MIR building requires method resolution information from HIR type-checking to
  guide the lowering.

When compared to MIR typeck where all types are specified, HIR typeck has to
infer types. HIR typeck also checks all closures together with their parent body
while MIR typeck/borrowck checks them separately.

See [Type checking](https://rustc-dev-guide.rust-lang.org/type-checking.html)
for more details.

#### HIR Well-formedness Checking

A type is _well-formed_ (WF) when it satisfies a set of requirements which are
fundamental to the type's validity. The requirements are type-specific, for
example:

- For a tuple to be WF, all elements except for the last needs to be `Sized`.
- For an algebraic data type (struct/enum/union) to be WF, its generics need to
  satisfy the `where` clauses on the ADT.

The notion of well-formedness can be inductively extended for entities that
contain types, such as trait predicates. A trait predicate `T0: Trait<P1, ...>`
is well-formed if `T0` and `P1, ...` are well-formed in addition to `Trait`'s
`where` clauses being satisfied.

> HIR well-formedness checking is an early collection of checks on mostly surface
> Rust syntax (such as parameters, local variables and return types) which are run
> before further type-checking and inference, for two purposes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HIR is _well-formed_ (WF) when it satisfies a set of requirements that include:
- Well-formedness of types in type signatures
- Object safety
- Function call ABI requirements (e.g. for "rust-call")
- Check if receiver type can be used as a self type
- Variances check
- etc
These checks are run before further type-checking and inference, for two purposes:
```
(I just took the list from your Zulip post, I don't know if that's a sensible list)

Author: I added these examples to extend the notion of HIR wfcheck to cover not just type wfcheck.
